# GarconWinApp
Case Study: Restaurant Ordering Automation
Simang’s Bistro’s origins started in 1945, after World War 2. Maximiana “Aling Simang” Durukut, a homemaker, started to sell her home-made delicacies in Barangay Ulok-Ulok. Because of her excellent cooking skills and unique recipes, people around her barangay started to regularly visit her home to purchase her food. This prompted Aling Simang to open a small eatery where people around her barangay can enjoy her home-made dishes.
Aling Simang’s son, Eman Durukut, who managed the eatery produced the idea to talk to several investors to be able to send the word out to the public about the delicious home-made food and incredibly unique recipes that the eatery possesses. After setting up a few meetings with investors, a Barangay Ulok-Ulok native that won the lotto jackpot decided to invest part of his winnings into the eatery. Then, Simang’s Bistro was born.
Over the years, Bistro’s popularity grew, and it became one of the most visited restaurants in their province. It has expanded in Metro Manila, Southern and Northern Mindanao, and to Berlin and other places in Europe. It will soon open restaurants in other countries as well.
The bistro’s management alongside their suppliers, stakeholders and customers conducted several studies to determine what are the necessary developments are needed to set new quality and service standards. Research was performed for purposes of strategic planning to address performance in key areas such as quality, value for money, cleanliness, and service.
The management saw that one key point that needs to be addressed was ordering correctness and efficiency. With that, Simang’s Bistro branches all around the world will be having an automated ordering application placed on every table called “Garçon” which mean waiter in French.
Garçon will be there to walk you through and make your ordering experience at Simang’s Bistro a breeze. The application lets you choose from a wide variety of appetizers, main courses, desserts, and drinks that will be seen on the menu. The application also has the “Chef’s Recommendation” feature which will automatically select today’s specials for each item of your meal.
After an order is done, order details will be shown to the customer which will show the summary of the meal also containing the preparation time, total price of the meal and the prices per item. The customer can also view the order details and will be able to see whether their orders are being prepared, being cooked or ready to serve. Customers can cancel orders before their order goes into preparation stage. After all the ordered items are completed and served, the customer will be presented with the Bill-out option. This option will present the customer with the full details of their orders (itemized order items, total charge, service charge and inclusive tax).

